---
id: 4451
title: Professional Entrepreneurship
updated_at: 1544248800
author: adminbc
blueprint: post
guid: https://briancasel.com/?p=4451
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
How do you know when you&#8217;ve _gone pro_ at something?

Maybe it&#8217;s when you feel confident enough with your skillset that you submit an application for full-time employment at a company for a role which requires this skillset.  And then you beat the other candidates, get hired, and get paid a market salary for your skill.

I think that sounds about right.

But I&#8217;d go one step further:  It&#8217;s when you feel like you can rely on your professional skillset to make your living.  You feel a sense of security in your trade.

OK. Now how about entrepreneurship?  When do you become a professional at entrepreneurship?

Is professional entrepreneurship even a thing (or are we all just winging it)?

I think it is.  But it&#8217;s different.  And it&#8217;s a lot harder.

Not because entrepreneurship itself is hard (although, yes, of course it is).  Becoming a _professional_ entrepreneur is different from becoming any other type of professional because the person deciding to hire and pay you as an entrepreneur is&#8230; You.

Customers?  No, they don&#8217;t pay _you_.  They pay for _your product_.  But you&#8217;re the one who gives yourself the job title of entrepreneur.

In my career so far, I have launched at least 12 [products](https://briancasel.com/products/) that customers have bought.  Not bad.  But still to this day, when I&#8217;m rolling out a new product, I have the same familiar sense of uncertainty:  Could this ever support me and my family?  Will even _one_ customer buy this one?

At some point in this journey, I began feeling more comfortable in that uncertainty.  I began using that uncertainty to make better business decisions.  I began being more strategic and intentional about what I choose to work on, and when.

That&#8217;s when I began relying on my entrepreneurial skillset.  Depending on it.  Trusting it.

That&#8217;s being a professional entrepreneur.

&nbsp;