---
id: 4577
title: Space to breathe
updated_at: 1550300400
author: adminbc
blueprint: post
guid: https://briancasel.com/?p=4577
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
I find the entrepreneurship to be more of a creative endeavor than anything else. You&#8217;re literally creating something out of nothing, with the goal of someone else finding value in your ideas.

Looking back, that&#8217;s what drove me to start out as a freelancer. I was hungry for more freedom to create.

But I soon found that freelancing didn&#8217;t satisfy that hunger.

Early on, I was stressed about money. So I had to take whatever gigs I could to make sure I could pay rent each month.

A little later it was _too much_ work that prevented me from creating. I was drowning in deadlines, proposals, contracts, deliverables, and satisfying clients.

Eventually, I learned the power of systems, process, and delegation. I learned how to connect with an ideal customer and form a unique value proposition.

By productizing my service, I was able to scale it to a point where it not only earned a better income than I had as a freelancer, but it opened up oceans of free time.

Now, a decade later, I finally found that space to breathe. The space to create. To be strategic. To explore. To try out ideas and see them through.

Getting here requires 3 milestones:

  1. Financial freedom
  2. Time freedom
  3. Creative freedom

Freelancers can achieve that first milestone relatively easily. It&#8217;s the 2nd and 3rd that (time and creativity) that few are able to reach.

I found the Productized Service model is how you can bridge that gap, especially if you&#8217;re a freelancer or consultant, like I was.

<hr class="wp-block-separator" />

_My <a href="https://productizecourse.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener" aria-label="Productize Course & Community (opens in a new tab)">Productize Course & Community</a> is where I teach and share lessons in scaling up. Come join us!_