---
id: 4689
title: You are not your job title
updated_at: 1567166400
author: adminbc
blueprint: post
guid: https://briancasel.com/?p=4689
categories:
  - Business
---
15 years ago, at the start of my professional career, I was hired at a web design agency as a &#8220;_front-end developer&#8221;_.

That meant my role was to take the finished mockups that the &#8220;_designers&#8221;_ created, and convert them to HTML and CSS code that works in web browsers (I still have nightmares about IE6!).

Then, my .html documents would be handed over to the &#8220;_back-end developers&#8221;_, who would insert code around my HTML markup so that the pages can connect to a database and work dynamically.

There aren&#8217;t many things that I regret in my career so far.  For the most part, I feel incredibly lucky and amazed that I get to work and create things on the internet during this era.  What an exciting time!

But one thing I&#8217;m noticing now is how I let a job title_ _from early in my career have an outsized impact on my professional identity.  It shaped a mindset of &#8220;I&#8217;m forever meant to do some things, but not meant to do other things&#8221;.

I know now, that&#8217;s bullshit.  It&#8217;s completely not the way our world works anymore—especially when you make your living on the internet.  I wish I learned that sooner.

I have always been a creative person.  I have always been excited about technology.  And so I have always sought out the merger of those two things.

For as long as I&#8217;ve been into writing music, I&#8217;ve been into the recording and production side of it too.  For as long as I&#8217;ve been designing graphics, logos, and layouts, I&#8217;ve been interested in how to make them interactive and useable digitally on the web.

I was also the kid who went door-to-door to shovel snowy driveways for $15 a house.  I was the teenager who jumped from job-to-job constantly searching for a more efficient way to earn cash.  As soon as I discovered it&#8217;s possible to make a living without having a boss, I went freelance and never looked back.  And when I realized others just like me were creating and selling products, that was it.  Entrepreneur for life.

Here&#8217;s where I went wrong:

For too long, I let my professional identity cripple my confidence.  At times, this resulted in slower progress, financial stress, and work I didn&#8217;t enjoy and wasn&#8217;t proud of.

Since I identified as a _&#8220;front-end developer&#8221;_, I often felt that made me _not_ a _&#8220;designer&#8221;_.  So I didn&#8217;t flex my design muscles as much as I could have.  As the years went on, I slowly realized that design actually comes easier to me than I let myself admit.  But there&#8217;s no doubt I&#8217;d be a far better designer today if I invested in that skill earlier in my career.

As a designer, that put me even further away from the territory of _&#8220;back-end developer&#8221;_.  Command line?  Databases?  Software programming?  I had no business even trying to learn that magical stuff!

For a decade, I resorted to outsourcing that work, spending tens of thousands of dollars, or joining unhealthy partnerships.  But, even though I couldn&#8217;t write back-end code, I was always naturally interested in the technical side.  I could understand enough to know when something was poorly architected or not executed the way my design called for.

I finally invested in learning back-end development so that I can design products [from front to back](https://briancasel.com/full-stack-product-person/).  Now I kick myself for not doing that sooner.  I didn&#8217;t realize how much I&#8217;d enjoy it!  But mainly, I realize now that the codebase is just as much part of the design as the colors and fonts.  So learning back-end code makes me a better designer and product person.

All of that creative work was a means to end:  Building businesses.  That always meant that my true job, above all the others, is _&#8220;entrepreneur&#8221;_.  I suppose that continues to be true today.

But that too, let me convince myself that, as an _&#8220;entrepreneur&#8221;_, it&#8217;s a smarter business decision to outsource certain things (like design, code and marketing) than to do those things myself.  Don&#8217;t get me wrong, I love to hire great people, delegate and build self-sustaining businesses that run without me.  But I also love to get my hands dirty, and actually create the products that I sell.  These days, I&#8217;m trying more to embrace that natural urge to create, especially since my business now affords me the time and [space](https://briancasel.com/space-to-breathe/) to do so.

Lastly, music.  In college, I chose to get my bachelor&#8217;s degree in audio engineering, because I was sure I&#8217;d pursue a career as a professional music producer.  But in my mid-twenties, when I realized playing in bands wouldn&#8217;t go anywhere, and I didn&#8217;t see a ton of opportunities working in studios as an unpaid intern, I gave up and turned to a career on the web (and I&#8217;m so glad I did!).

But that had the side effect of letting my love of writing and producing music go almost entirely extinct.  I ended up selling all my home studio gear and letting my guitars collect dust in the basement.  It wasn&#8217;t until this year that I finally came back around to the idea that it&#8217;s OK to let producing music come back into my life—this time as a hobby, not a profession.  Now I&#8217;m re-building my home studio, slowly re-learning the tools, and getting back to cranking out tunes that make my head bob&#8230; On Sunday afternoons only.

That&#8217;s all to say:

Don&#8217;t let your job title dictate what you allow yourself to do or not do.  Use your current job not for the money, but as a means to an end.  A way to expand one skill and perhaps open the door to a different one.  Then go ahead and walk through that door and see where that takes you.

You don&#8217;t know what you don&#8217;t know (yet).

* * *

_Want to see what I&#8217;m working on lately?  I&#8217;m showing my work-in-progress over on <a href="https://www.youtube.com/user/CasJam6/videos?view=0&sort=dd&flow=grid&view_as=subscriber" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">my YouTube channel</a>._