---
id: 5a0bf9fd-a14c-416f-847e-9b1326965048
blueprint: post
title: 'Building in Public'
updated_at: 1692234000
---
I’ve been “building in public” long before it became a thing in recent years.  This blog, my various podcasts, and videos have always been a natural outlet for me.

Sharing my work and seeking feedback from my peers has been an important part of my creative process.  It’s taken various forms over the years.

Lately, I got back into the swing of building in public with a string of daily(ish) videos sharing my current work on my SaaS product, Clarityflow.  

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VnYTyVMga4Y&list=PLmfauxg0uEuqQ2FXLpJnGcmnsG4vkTYao" target="_blank">See the playlist on YouTube</a>

<a href="https://twitter.com/CasJam/status/1686748616252170241" target="_blank">See them when they drop on Twitter (<em>ok fine, X</em>)</a>

---

## But… Why spend the time?

Building in public often seems like a waste of time and energy.  Because it does truly take both of those things:  A non-zero amount of hours go into preparing, recording or writing an update, and sharing it out.  That’s also very energy-draining.

Wouldn’t that time and energy be better spent actually working on the business?  Product work.  Marketing work.  Sales work… Why add more to-dos onto of all that?

I often question this.  It’s why I go through phases of actively sharing publicly and phases where I’m pretty quiet publicly (but still very busy at work).

But looking back on my 10+ years of building in public, I notice a strange, but interesting trend:  When I’m regularly sharing publicly, momentum in my business seems to swing up and to the right.

## Specific benefits

Here's, specifically, why I continue to invest my time and energy into building in public (albeit not always consistently):

### 1. It helps me stay accountable

I don't really have any issues with motivation or shipping.

But I do find myself getting sidetracked into projects and rabbit-holes that aren't always the highest priorities in the business at the moment.  Sure, I have my lists and ways to manage my focus, privately, at work.  I also turn to my mastermind groups to help me stay focused on priorities.

But sharing my priorities publicly, and knowing I intend to share my execution on those goals publicly, gives me an extra bit of "fire" to ship and avoid embarrassing myself.  It actually works!

### 2. Network effects

I'm not specifically trying to "build an audience" (but that tends to happen, to an extent, when building in public).  

I also don't expect people to watch my videos or listen to my podcasts and then go become a customer of my products (although that has happened as well).

It's the more indirect <em>network effects</em> that I'm after when I invest into building in public.

Specifically:

- Folks who follow my story tend to share my products with people that _they_ believe are good customers for me.  This really happens!
- I get invited to be a guest on podcasts, webinars, conference talks, and the like.  This happens a lot more regularly than it would if I were totally unknown and not putting myself _out there_.
- Hiring great talent is a lot easier.  People seem to be more eager to work with me, because they already (sorta) _know_ me.  That means that super talented people make themselves available, and I believe, put an extra level of effort to do their best work with me because it's fun and has the potential to give _them_ some additional exposure too.  This isn't always the case, but I think it's a factor.
- Partnerships also seem to happen more easily.  Integrations, joint-ventures, joint promotions, affiliates, etc.

### 3. Something to look back on

Maybe this has become more important to me since having kids (my girls are 7 and 9 now).

I like to think that someday, my kids can look back on this blog, my old podcasts and videos and find some nuggets of wisdom that I may have had in the moment.

That reminds me—Great ideas and concepts often slip away with time.  I think it's much more interesting and useful to share them as close to real-time as possible, while all the nitty-gritty details are still available to share.

---

So there's my take on building in public.  See ya on my next update! 


